__NOTOC__

==Change Log==
===2013-06-09===
(James)
* Made notes and diagram on table relationships.
* More notes.

===2013-06-08===
(James)
* Created a .gitignore file to ignore db connection file php/mysql.php and created a php/mysql_example.php. This way everyone can have their own local version of the database connection file and we don't want a file with database connection info on there anyway (with the idea in mind this will be open source one day). Contributors can use the example to create their own local version of php/mysql.php for local testing and development.
* Created this readme file. In the future this will explain what the project is and how it works. Github allows for many mark up languages to be used for the readme, I chose mediawiki because it's the one I'm most familiar with, feel free to change it.
* Created a folder, db_exports, has an export of the database with date. Open source versions of this project should only have the structure. The export named pvamu_pvplanner_2013-06-08.sql is the whole database.
* Removed the .LCK files and added that to .gitignore.
* Made notes on scripts and files in admin-plans.html (still trying to work everything out).


==Notes==
Consider [http://www.php.net/manual/en/class.pdo.php PDO class] for database connection, [http://php.net/manual/en/function.mysql-connect.php mysql_connect is officially depreciated as of PHP 5.5.0]. This is a decent quick [http://net.tutsplus.com/tutorials/php/why-you-should-be-using-phps-pdo-for-database-access/ PDO reference].

===Database notes===
There is a [https://github.com/CSPVAMU/PantherTracksMobile/tree/master/db_exports DB Relationship diagram] in the db_exports folder.

* Looking at the database from a student perspective.
** Users that are students have a reference table named StudentRecords. There can be any number of records per student.
** StudentRecords links completed courses to a student.

* Looking at the database from a degree plan perspective.
** For users that are students in the users table there is a column for chosen degree plan.
** The degreePlanData table has general information about each degree plan (title, description, etc).
** The degreePlanRequirements is a reference table that links a degree plan to courses via requirement.
** In most cases a requirement is met by a single course, but some requirements can be met by many courses (like an elective).

Degree plan progress can be tracked programmatically by the students chosen plan. For example, we can show a list of courses a student has taken, which ones apply to the student's selected degree plan, and which ones do not. The student can even change his degree plan to view "what if" scenarios. We can then show them the difference in time (be it semesters, credit hours, or years) to complete any degree.